english	category	sub_category	source
<colNum0>Click here to continue</col>	dialogue	manual	
Greetings, adventurer. I am Phileas, the Lumbridge Guide. I am here to give information and directions to new players. You can also speak to my good friend Adventurer Jon about Adventure Paths.	dialogue	Lumbridge Guide	Lumbridge Guide
I'm not too sure what to do.	dialogue	Lumbridge Guide	Player
Select an option	dialogue	manual	
There are many monsters around the world which you can fight. They will vary in difficulty but no matter what monster you fight, I would always recommend using a weapon.	dialogue	Lumbridge Guide	Lumbridge Guide
Can you give me some tips on what to fight instead?	dialogue	Lumbridge Guide	Player
Can I ask you something eles?	dialogue	Lumbridge Guide	Player
Ok, I'll go talk to him now.	dialogue	Lumbridge Guide	Player
Very well then, let's see here…	dialogue	Lumbridge Guide	Player
It's going to be tough fighting monsters without a weapon. I suggest you first get a weapon from the bank or see the combat tutors south of the general store.	dialogue	Lumbridge Guide	Lumbridge Guide
The minimap in the top right corner of the game<br>screen has various icons showing the location of things.<br>This icon to the left shows where general stores are.	dialogue	Lumbridge Guide	Lumbridge Guide
The minimap in the top right corner of the game<br>screen has various icons showing the locations of things.<br>This icon to the left shows where banks are.	dialogue	Lumbridge Guide	Lumbridge Guide
Tell me more about security.	dialogue	Lumbridge Guide	Player
Firstly, keep your RuneScape password and bank PIN secure. Never tell anyone your password or share your account with them - they might steal it or get it banned for breaking rules.	dialogue	Lumbridge Guide	Lumbridge Guide
Now, I can tell you more about password security, avoiding item scamming and in-game moderation.	dialogue	Lumbridge Guide	Lumbridge Guide
I can also tell you about the Stronghold of Security, a place where you can learn more about account security and have a bit of an adventure at the same time. So how can I help you?	dialogue	Lumbridge Guide	Lumbridge Guide
There are many nice and helpful players in Old School RuneScape; unfortunately, as in real life, there are some who aren't so honest. Some people may try to trick you out of your items.	dialogue	Lumbridge Guide	Lumbridge Guide
Try not to fall for this, as you won't get your items back.	dialogue	Lumbridge Guide	Lumbridge Guide
When trading, you have a second trade confirmation screen. Always double-check it to ensure you are getting the items you expect, as scammers may change their offer suddenly, hoping you won't notice.	dialogue	Lumbridge Guide	Lumbridge Guide
Remember, once you have clicked Accept on the second trade screen, the trade is not reversible.	dialogue	Lumbridge Guide	Lumbridge Guide
Try and find out from someone else what an item is before spending a lot of money on it. Not all merchants are honest about the rarity or the uses of their wares.	dialogue	Lumbridge Guide	Lumbridge Guide
For example, some people try to pass off spinach rolls as rare, when in fact they're as common as cabbages!	dialogue	Lumbridge Guide	Lumbridge Guide
Be wary of people offering to improve your items. For example, some people will claim they can add a trim to your armour or upgrade your sword to a more powerful one.	dialogue	Lumbridge Guide	Lumbridge Guide
<colNum0>Please wait...</col>	dialogue	manual	
More options…	dialogue	manual	
There is also the wilderness. The wilderness is north of Varrock and you can fight other players there. But bare in mind if you die to another player in the wilderness you will lose your stuff.	dialogue	Melee combat tutor	Melee combat tutor
Tell me about different weapon types I can use.	dialogue	Melee combat tutor	Player
Harlan gives you a Training sword and shield.	dialogue	manual	
I can't help you with that at the moment, sorry.	dialogue	Magic combat tutor	Magic combat tutor
On a members-only world, you could ask for runes to<br>be put directly in a rune pouch when you pick them up<br>from the ground.	dialogue	manual	
To get rune essence you will need to gather them in the Rune Essence Mine. You can get to the mine by talking to Aubury who owns the runes shop in south east Varrock.	dialogue	Magic combat tutor	Magic combat tutor
Let's discuss how my ammo acts when I pick it up.	dialogue	Ranged combat tutor	Player
When you pick up ammo from the ground, if it matches what you've got equipped in your quiver, or what's in your bolt pouch, I can make the ammo you've picked up go straight into there, provided there's space.	dialogue	Ranged combat tutor	Ranged combat tutor
Alternatively, you can let it go into your inventory like normal.	dialogue	manual	
How do you want to handle picking up ammo?	dialogue	Ranged combat tutor	Ranged combat tutor
There you go! Your ammo will go to your inventory when you pick it up, rather than going to your quiver or bolt pouch.	dialogue	Ranged combat tutor	Ranged combat tutor
You can also control this option via the Settings menu, rather than<br>having to return to this Tutor in future.	dialogue	manual	
You would then use the feathers and arrow heads on the arrow shafts to make arrows. The bow string would be used on the unstrung bow to make a bow.	dialogue	Ranged combat tutor	Ranged combat tutor
Click here to continue</col>	dialogue	manual	
Thanks for the ingredients you have got so far. Please get the rest quickly - I'm running out of time! The Duke will throw me into the streets!	dialogue	Chef	Chef
You still need to get: A bucket of milk	dialogue	Chef	Chef
Where do I find some flour?	dialogue	Chef	Player
How about milk?	dialogue	Chef	Player
And eggs? Where are they found?	dialogue	Chef	Player
There is a Mill fairly close, go North and then West. Mill Lane Mill is just off the road to Draynor. I usually get my flour from there.	dialogue	Chef	Chef
Talk to Millie, she'll help, she's a lovely girl and a fine Miller. Make sure you take a pot with you for the flour though, there should be one on the table in here.	dialogue	Chef	Chef
There is a cattle field on the other side of the river, just across the road from the Groats' Farm.	dialogue	Chef	Chef
Talk to Gillie Groats, she looks after the Dairy cows - she'll tell you everything you need to know about milking cows!	dialogue	Chef	Chef
You'll need an empty bucket for the milk itself. The general store just north of the castle will sell you one for a couple of coins.	dialogue	Chef	Chef
I normally get my eggs from the Groats' farm, on the other side of the river.	dialogue	Chef	Chef
But any chicken should lay eggs.	dialogue	Chef	Chef
I'll get right on it.	dialogue	Chef	Player
The minimap in the top right corner of the screen has various icons to show different points of interest. Look for the icon to the left to find quest start points.	dialogue	manual	
You should go talk to my friend Adventurer Jon, he might have an Adventure Path that could help you with what to fight.	dialogue	Lumbridge Guide	Lumbridge Guide
Very well then, let's see here...	dialogue	Lumbridge Guide	Lumbridge Guide
Where can I get better armour and weapons?	dialogue	Lumbridge Guide	Player
This is not possible - they are probably trying to steal your hard-earned equipment. Now, is there anything else I can tell you about?	dialogue	Lumbridge Guide	Lumbridge Guide
An exciting discovery has been made in the Barbarian Village. Soon after they started mining in the middle of the village, one of the miners found a cave.	dialogue	Lumbridge Guide	Lumbridge Guide
An explorer ventured into it, finding new and exciting creatures and other surprises on top of that. It turns out this place can also teach you to secure your account more effectively.	dialogue	Lumbridge Guide	Lumbridge Guide
staff characters in game - these can be identified by a gold crown next to their name and are the people who work in the Jagex offices. They might be from Player Support, or they might be a tester or a programmer.	dialogue	Lumbridge Guide	Lumbridge Guide
You may also see player moderators - these can be identified by a silver crown next to their name. Player moderators are trusted players of Old School RuneScape that help keep in-game behaviour in line with	dialogue	Lumbridge Guide	Lumbridge Guide
the Old School RuneScape rules.	dialogue	Lumbridge Guide	Lumbridge Guide
Play the game by the rules. Report those who break the rules, help players who need it, and one day you might find an invitation in your Old School RuneScape inbox.	dialogue	Lumbridge Guide	Lumbridge Guide
Remember, Jagex will never send player moderator invitations via in-game chat, via social media or via email. Any messages like that are scams. Jagex uses the inbox on the RuneScape website.	dialogue	Lumbridge Guide	Lumbridge Guide
More options...	dialogue	Adventurer Jon	Adventurer Jon
Unfortunately these are members only but I will explain them to you.	dialogue	Arthur the Clue Hunter	Arthur the Clue Hunter
The chance to get a higher tier clue from geodes, bottles and nests is lower the higher the tier. But if you chop down higher-level trees you will have a higher chance of receiving a nest which contains a clue. Same	dialogue	Arthur the Clue Hunter	Arthur the Clue Hunter
with fishing and mining.	dialogue	Arthur the Clue Hunter	Arthur the Clue Hunter
More.	dialogue	Arthur the Clue Hunter	Player
You will see a couple of words that may or may not make sense together. You will have to rearrange the letters to make the name of the person you need to talk to.	dialogue	Arthur the Clue Hunter	Arthur the Clue Hunter
Unfortunately, the only type of challenge that you will be given is a skill challenge.	dialogue	Arthur the Clue Hunter	Arthur the Clue Hunter
This type of clues has you talk to someone around Gielinor. Although the clue does not tell you exactly who to talk to. This type of challenge only appears in clue tiers medium, hard and elite.	dialogue	Arthur the Clue Hunter	Arthur the Clue Hunter
Unfortunately, this type of clue is members only.	dialogue	Arthur the Clue Hunter	Arthur the Clue Hunter
Unfortunately, this type of clue is members only.	dialogue	Arthur the Clue Hunter	Arthur the Clue Hunter
This type of clue can be as simple as talk to the specified person or searching a crate in specified location.	dialogue	Arthur the Clue Hunter	Arthur the Clue Hunter
Unfortunately, you will only be given the easier ones in beginner clues.	dialogue	Arthur the Clue Hunter	Arthur the Clue Hunter
You will only need to talk to Reldo for beginner clues.	dialogue	Arthur the Clue Hunter	Arthur the Clue Hunter
The map will show you where you will need to dig, or what you will need to search to get the next clue.	dialogue	Arthur the Clue Hunter	Arthur the Clue Hunter
You will then need to use the numbers to figure out where you will need to dig after arriving to your destination.	dialogue	Arthur the Clue Hunter	Arthur the Clue Hunter
The name's Veos. I'm a treasure hunter from the wonderous Kingdom of Great Kourend.	dialogue	Veos	Veos
Across the sea to the far west. It is a truly magnificent place.	dialogue	Veos	Veos
I am here on a bit of a hunt. The hunt for treasure. Back in my home of Great Kourend I came across a scroll. I believe it will lead me to something of great value.	dialogue	Veos	Veos
Alas, I've hit a bit of a blocker. The scroll has led me here but as I don't really know the area, I'm not sure what to do next.	dialogue	Veos	Veos
Hmmm. Maybe you can. You probably know this area better than I do. You might be able to work the scroll out. I'll be able to reward you if you help.	dialogue	Veos	Veos
Great Kourend? Where's that?	dialogue	Veos	Player
Interesting. So what brings you to Lumbridge?	dialogue	Veos	Player
Well good luck with it.	dialogue	Veos	Player
You look hungry to me. I tell you what - have a square sandwich on me.	dialogue	Sandwich lady	Sandwich lady
You can also control this option via the Settings menu, rather than having to return to this Tutor in future.	dialogue	manual	
Click here to continue	dialogue	manual	
Start the X Marks the Spot quest?	dialogue	manual	
More options.	dialogue	manual	
Previous options.	dialogue	manual	
I better be going now.	dialogue	manual	
How do I create  a bow and arrows?	dialogue	Ranged combat tutor	Player
My name's Gillie Groats. My father is a farmer and I milk the cows for him.	dialogue	Gillie Groats	Gillie Groats
I'm afraid not. We need all of our milk to sell to market, but you can milk the cow yourself if you need milk.	dialogue	Gillie Groats	Gillie Groats
Spare some change, guv?	dialogue	Charlie the Tramp	Charlie the Tramp
Okay, here you go.	dialogue	Charlie the Tramp	Player
Oh, to be a father in the times of whiskey! I sing and I drink and I wake up in gutters.	dialogue	Father Lawrence	Father Lawrence
Climb up	dialogue	manual	
Climb down	dialogue	manual	
What would you like to say?	dialogue	manual	
Join Castle Wars?	dialogue	manual	
A PK skull means you drop ALL your items on death.	dialogue	manual	
Select an item to ask about its price:	dialogue	manual	
Are you sure you want to display your time played?	dialogue	manual	
Yes and don't ask me again	dialogue	manual	
Select Your Prize	dialogue	manual	
Climb up or down the stairs?	dialogue	manual	
Climb up.	dialogue	manual	
Climb down.	dialogue	manual	
Please wait...	dialogue	manual	
Start the Demon Slayer quest?	dialogue	manual	
A makeover is free!	dialogue	manual	
Change your top.	dialogue	manual	
Change your bottoms.	dialogue	manual	
Change your wristwear.	dialogue	manual	
